CSC488 Assignment 5 -- Code Generator Design Doc -- Group 7


Functions and Procedures

Routine Body Code Generation

The process of code generation for routines kicks off when a RoutineDecl node
is visited in the AST. At this point, code is generated for a few different
actions.

To begin, an unconditional branch is emitted that jumps the routine's internal
instructions. This is necessary to avoid falling through executing instructions
to adjacent routine instructions in memory when a routine has not actually been
called.

Next, code is emitted to allocate space for the routine's local variables. This
is the sole responsibility of the callee during routine call setup. This code
is added to the front of the routine and is executed everytime the routine is
called, prior to the routine's actual instructions.

Code is then recursively generated for the arbitrary declarations and statements
the routine may contain.

Once the routine's instructions are complete, the routine epilogue code is
appended. Code from result and return statements will jump to this point to
exit the routine, and routines that lack explicit result and return
statements will also be caught by these instructions and exit properly.
Note that return values on the stack for functions that fail to include
a result statement will be Machine.UNDEFINED.

The epilogue code pops all local and argument storage from the stack,
resets the display to the saved value and branches to the return address.

Epilogue code is created by the generateRoutineEpilogue method.

Routine Entrance Code

With code for routines now in memory, we are left to handle any calls to
the routines. This is done by emitting routine prologue code in the caller
when a ProcedureCallStmt or FunctionCallExpn is visited in the AST.

The preparation for routine calling involves allocating space for a return
value (only if a function is being called), a return address and saving
the display entry for the current lexic level. Arguments are then evaluated
on the stack, the display is updated to the callee's context and a branch
is set to the first instruction of the routine.

To fix the problem of updating the display too early when evaluating
arguments in our A4 design, we have swapped the ordering in which
these operations are handled. Arguments are now evaluated prior to
the display being updated to point to the new activation record.

Arguments are kept at the same offsets as expected previously
(that is, 0 to n - 1 where n is the number of parameters) by
subtracting the number of arguments from the address on the
stack after a PUSHMT instruction. This must be done at runtime and results
in the address of the first argument being on the stack for the following
SETD instruction that updates the display.

The generateRoutinePrologue method does the bulk of this work.

Return Values and Result Statements

During call setup, one word is allocated to hold the return value of a function
call. This word is three words below the beginning of the function's activation
record, so its address is known.

The return value is populated when visiting a ResultStmt node in the AST.
This is accomplished by loading the address of the return value, evaluating
the result expression and storing the final value. After a function exits,
the return value is the only thing left on the stack.

After storing the return value, a result statement will branch to the function
epilogue code stored at the end of the function body. This is a simple branch
instruction, but in order to patch in the address of the yet-to-be-generated
exit code, this branch address is added to a global stack called the
branchToRoutineExitStack. This stack is cleaned out by the routine exit code,
which patches each address on the stack in turn with the address of its code. 

Return Statements

Return statements are handled in the same manner as result statements, minus
the evaluation and storing of a return value.

forward declarations:

When a forward declaration is encountered, we need to let all callers of that
routine know where the start address of the actual routine is. Therefore 
we add a list of address into the symboltable of the forward declaration
to store the addresses of the forward routine callers. When we reach the 
actual routine definition, we then write back the start address to all callers
and we have already stored the information of all callers in the list.



Expressions

Code generation of expressions follow the design from our A4. The only new design
we have in this assignment is to change the 'and', 'or' expressions by evaluating
the left expression first. Based on the condition, we may branch over and skip the 
evaluation of the right hand side expression. 



Statements

Most of the statement generations follow the design from our A4. However, some of
the tricks we used to write back the branch address after we reach some later code
was not specified in A4. Basically if we have a branch statement and we don't yet 
know where to branch to as we traversing the AST tree (e.g. branch in if and loops), 
we leave the branch destination undefined and used a local variable to store the 
address of that branch statement. When later on we know where the branch statement 
should go, we then write back the correct address to the address we have stored 
in the local variable.

exit statements

Branching from exit statements can be tricky. There could be multiple exit statements 
in a loop and we don't know where to branch until we reach the end of the loop. The 
way we did it is to create a list of addresses at the beginning of a loop statement. 
And when every time we encounter an exit we add the address of branch statement that
needs update on the branch destination into the list. When we reach the end of the 
loop statement, the branch destination is known and we can write it to every place 
that needs update on the branch destination.



